(a) Create a structure to specify data on students given below: 
Roll number, Name, Department, Course, Year of joining 
Assume that there are not more than 450 students in the 
collage. 
(a) Write a function to print names of all students who joined 
in a particular year. 
(b) Write a function to print the data of a student whose roll 
number is given. 
Chapter 10: Structures 389
(b) Create a structure to specify data of customers in a bank. The 
data to be stored is: Account number, Name, Balance in 
account. Assume maximum of 200 customers in the bank. 
(a) Write a function to print the Account number and name 
of each customer with balance below Rs. 100. 
(b) If a customer request for withdrawal or deposit, it is 
given in the form: 
Acct. no, amount, code (1 for deposit, 0 for withdrawal) 
Write a program to give a message, “The balance is 
insufficient for the specified withdrawal”. 
(c) An automobile company has serial number for engine parts 
starting from AA0 to FF9. The other characteristics of parts to 
be specified in a structure are: Year of manufacture, material 
and quantity manufactured. 
(a) Specify a structure to store information corresponding to 
a part. 
(b) Write a program to retrieve information on parts with 
serial numbers between BB1 and CC6. 
(d) A record contains name of cricketer, his age, number of test 
matches that he has played and the average runs that he has 
scored in each test match. Create an array of structure to hold 
records of 20 such cricketer and then write a program to read 
these records and arrange them in ascending order by average 
runs. Use the qusort( ) standard library function. 
(e) There is a structure called employee that holds information 
like employee code, name, date of joining. Write a program to 
create an array of the structure and enter some data into it. 
Then ask the user to enter current date. Display the names of 
those employees whose tenure is 3 or more than 3 years 
according to the given current date. 
(f) Write a menu driven program that depicts the working of a 
library. The menu options should be: 
390 Let Us C 
1. Add book information 
2. Display book information 
3. List all books of given author 
4. List the title of specified book 
5. List the count of books in the library 
6. List the books in the order of accession number 
7. Exit 
Create a structure called library to hold accession number, 
title of the book, author name, price of the book, and flag 
indicating whether book is issued or not. 
(g) Write a program that compares two given dates. To store date 
use structure say date that contains three members namely 
date, month and year. If the dates are equal then display 
message as "Equal" otherwise "Unequal". 
(h) Linked list is a very common data structure often used to store 
similar data in memory. While the elements of an array 
occupy contiguous memory locations, those of a linked list 
are not constrained to be stored in adjacent location. The 
individual elements are stored “somewhere” in memory, 
rather like a family dispersed, but still bound together. The 
order of the elements is maintained by explicit links between 
them. Thus, a linked list is a collection of elements called 
nodes, each of which stores two item of information—an 
element of the list, and a link, i.e., a pointer or an address that 
indicates explicitly the location of the node containing the 
successor of this list element. 
Write a program to build a linked list by adding new nodes at 
the beginning, at the end or in the middle of the linked list. 
Also write a function display( ) which display all the nodes 
present in the linked list. 
(i) A stack is a data structure in which addition of new element 
or deletion of existing element always takes place at the same 
Chapter 10: Structures 391
end. This end is often known as ‘top’ of stack. This situation 
can be compared to a stack of plates in a cafeteria where every 
new plate taken off the stack is also from the ‘top’ of the 
stack. There are several application where stack can be put to 
use. For example, recursion, keeping track of function calls, 
evaluation of expressions, etc. Write a program to implement 
a stack using a linked list.
(j) Unlike a stack, in a queue the addition of new element takes 
place at the end (called ‘rear’ of queue) whereas deletion takes 
place at the other end (called ‘front’ of queue). Write a 
program to implement a queue using a linked list.