(a)
Write a program that converts all lowercase characters in a 
given string to its equivalent uppercase character. 
Write a program that extracts part of the given string from the 
specified position. For example, if the sting is "Working with 
strings is fun", then if from position 4, 4 characters are to be 
extracted then the program should return string as "king". 
Moreover, if the position from where the string is to be 
extracted is given and the number of characters to be 
extracted is 0 then the program should extract entire string 
from the specified position. 
Write a program that converts a string like "124" to an integer 
124. 
Write a program that replaces two or more consecutive blanks 
in a string by a single blank. For example, if the input is 
Grim return to the planet of apes!! 
the output should be 
Grim return to the planet of apes!! 
Two-dimensional array, Array of pointers to strings 
[E] Answer the following: 
How many bytes in memory would be occupied by the 
following array of pointers to strings? How many bytes would 
be required to store the same strings, if they are stored in a 
two-dimensional character array? 
char *mess[ ] = { 
 "Hammer and tongs", 
 "Tooth and nail", 
358 Let Us C 
 "Spit and polish", 
 "You and C" 
 } ; 
(b)
(a)
(b)
(c)
Can an array of pointers to strings be used to collect strings 
from the keyboard? If not, why not? 
[F] Attempt the following: 
Write a program that uses an array of pointers to strings str[ ]. 
Receive two strings str1 and str2 and check if str1 is 
embedded in any of the strings in str[ ]. If str1 is found, then 
replace it with str2. 
char *str[ ] = { 
 "We will teach you how to...", 
 "Move a mountain", 
 "Level a building", 
 "Erase the past", 
 "Make a million", 
 "...all through C!" 
 } ; 
For example if str1 contains "mountain" and str2 contains 
"car", then the second string in str should get changed to 
"Move a car". 
Write a program to sort a set of names stored in an array in 
alphabetical order. 
Write a program to reverse the strings stored in the following 
array of pointers to strings: 
char *s[ ] = { 
 "To err is human...", 
 "But to really mess things up...", 
 "One needs to know C!!" 
 } ; 
Chapter 9: Puppetting On Strings 359
Hint: Write a function xstrrev ( string ) which should reverse 
the contents of one string. Call this function for reversing each 
string stored in s. 
(d) Develop a program that receives the month and year from the 
keyboard as integers and prints the calendar in the following 
format. 
September 2004 
Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30
Note that according to the Gregorian calendar 01/01/1900 was 
Monday. With this as the base the calendar should be 
generated. 
(e) Modify the above program suitably so that once the calendar 
for a particular month and year has been displayed on the 
360 Let Us C 
screen, then using arrow keys the user must be able to change 
the calendar in the following manner: 
Up arrow key : Next year, same month 
Down arrow key : Previous year, same month 
Right arrow key : Same year, next month 
Left arrow key : Same year, previous month 
If the escape key is hit then the procedure should stop. 
Hint: Use the getkey( ) function discussed in Chapter 8, 
problem number [L](c). 
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
A factory has 3 division and stocks 4 categories of products. 
An inventory table is updated for each division and for each 
product as they are received. There are three independent 
suppliers of products to the factory: 
(a) Design a data format to represent each transaction. 
(b) Write a program to take a transaction and update the 
inventory. 
(c) If the cost per item is also given write a program to 
calculate the total inventory values. 
A dequeue is an ordered set of elements in which elements 
may be inserted or retrieved from either end. Using an array 
simulate a dequeue of characters and the operations retrieve 
left, retrieve right, insert left, insert right. Exceptional 
conditions such as dequeue full or empty should be indicated. 
Two pointers (namely, left and right) are needed in this 
simulation. 
Write a program to delete all vowels from a sentence. Assume 
that the sentence is not more than 80 characters long. 
Write a program that will read a line and delete from it all 
occurrences of the word ‘the’. 
Chapter 9: Puppetting On Strings 361
(j)
(k)
Write a program that takes a set of names of individuals and 
abbreviates the first, middle and other names except the last 
name by their first letter. 
Write a program to count the number of occurrences of any 
two vowels in succession in a line of text. For example, in the 
sentence 
“Pleases read this application and give me gratuity” 
such occurrences are ea, ea, ui.