







(a)Write a program to read a file and display contents with its 
line numbers. 
(b)Write a program to find the size of a text file without 
traversing it character by character. 
(c)Write a program to add the contents of one file at the end of 
another. 

(d)Suppose a file contains students records with each record 
containing name and age of a student. Write a program to read 
these records and display them in sorted order by name. 
Write a program to copy one file to another. While doing so 
replace all lowercase characters to their equivalent uppercase 
characters. 

(e)Write a program that merges lines alternately from two files 
and writes the results to new file. If one file has less number 
of lines than the other, the remaining lines from the larger file 
should be simply copied into the target file. 

(f)Write a program to display the contents of a text file on the 
screen. Make following provisions: 

(g)Display the contents inside a box drawn with opposite corner 
co-ordinates being ( 0, 1 ) and ( 79, 23 ). Display the name of 
the file whose contents are being displayed, and the page 
numbers in the zeroth row. The moment one screenful of file 
has been displayed, flash a message ‘Press any key...’ in 24th
row. When a key is hit, the next page’s contents should be 
displayed, and so on till the end of file. 


(h)Write a program to encrypt/decrypt a file using: 

(1) An offset cipher: In an offset cipher each character from 
the source file is offset with a fixed value and then 
written to the target file. 
For example, if character read from the source file is ‘A’, 
then convert this into a new character by offsetting ‘A’ 
by a fixed value, say 128, and then writing the new 
character to the target file. 


(2) A substitution cipher: In this each character read from the 
source file is substituted by a corresponding 
predetermined character and this character is written to 
the target file. 
For example, if character ‘A’ is read from the source file, 
and if we have decided that every ‘A’ is to be substituted 
by ‘!’, then a ‘!’ would be written to the target file in 
place of every ‘A’ Similarly, every ‘B’ would be 
substituted by ‘5’ and so on. 


(i) In the file ‘CUSTOMER.DAT’ there are 100 records with the 
following structure: 
struct customer 
{ 
 int accno ; 
 char name[30] ; 
 float balance ; 
} ; 
In another file ‘TRANSACTIONS.DAT’ there are several 
records with the following structure: 
struct trans 
{ 
 int accno , 
 char trans_type ; 
Chapter 12: File Input/Output 461
 float amount ; 
} ; 
The parameter trans_type contains D/W indicating deposit or 
withdrawal of amount. Write a program to update 
‘CUSTOMER.DAT’ file, i.e. if the trans_type is ‘D’ then 
update the balance of ‘CUSTOMER.DAT’ by adding 
amount to balance for the corresponding accno. Similarly, if 
trans_type is ‘W’ then subtract the amount from balance. 
However, while subtracting the amount make sure that the 
amount should not get overdrawn, i.e. at least 100 Rs. Should 
remain in the account. 


(j)
There are 100 records present in a file with the following 
structure: 
struct date 
{ 
 int d, m, y ; 
} ; 
struct employee 
{ 
 int empcode[6] ; 
 char empname[20] ; 
 struct date join_date ; 
 float salary ; 
} ; 
Write a program to read these records, arrange them in 
ascending order of join_date and write them in to a target 
file. 


(k)A hospital keeps a file of blood donors in which each record 
has the format: 
Name: 20 Columns 
Address: 40 Columns 
462 Let Us C 
Age: 2 Columns 
Blood Type: 1 Column (Type 1, 2, 3 or 4) 
Write a program to read the file and print a list of all blood 
donors whose age is below 25 and blood is type 2. 




(l)Given a list of names of students in a class, write a program to 
store the names in a file on disk. Make a provision to display 
the nth name in the list (n is data to be read) and to display all 
names starting with S. 

(m)Assume that a Master file contains two fields, Roll no. and 
name of the student. At the end of the year, a set of students 
join the class and another set leaves. A Transaction file 
contains the roll numbers and an appropriate code to add or 
delete a student. 


(n)Write a program to create another file that contains the 
updated list of names and roll numbers. Assume that the 
Master file and the Transaction file are arranged in ascending 
order by roll numbers. The updated file should also be in 
ascending order by roll numbers. 


(o)In a small firm employee numbers are given in serial 
numerical order, that is 1, 2, 3, etc. 
− Create a file of employee data with following information: 
employee number, name, sex, gross salary. 
− If more employees join, append their data to the file. 
− If an employee with serial number 25 (say) leaves, delete 
the record by making gross salary 0. 
− If some employee’s gross salary increases, retrieve the 
record and update the salary. 
Write a program to implement the above operations. 
Given a text file, write a program to create another text file 
deleting the words “a”, “the”, “an” and replacing each one of 
them with a blank space. 
Chapter 12: File Input/Output 463
(p)
(q)
(r)
You are given a data file EMPLOYEE.DAT with the 
following record structure: 
struct employee { 
 int empno ; 
 char name[30] ; 
 int basic, grade ; 
 } ; 
Every employee has a unique empno and there are supposed 
to be no gaps between employee numbers. Records are 
entered into the data file in ascending order of employee 
number, empno. It is intended to check whether there are 
missing employee numbers. Write a program segment to read 
the data file records sequentially and display the list of 
missing employee numbers. 
Write a program to carry out the following: 
− To read a text file “TRIAL.TXT” consisting of a 
maximum of 50 lines of text, each line with a maximum 
of 80 characters. 
− Count and display the number of words contained in the 
file. 
− Display the total number of four letter words in the text 
file. 
Assume that the end of a word may be a space, comma or a 
full-stop followed by one or more spaces or a newline 
character. 
Write a program to read a list of words, sort the words in 
alphabetical order and display them one word per line. Also 
give the total number of words in the list. Output format 
should be: 
Total Number of words in the list is _______ 
Alphabetical listing of words is: 
------ 
------ 
464 Let Us C 
------ 
Assume the end of the list is indicated by ZZZZZZ and there 
are maximum in 25 words in the Text file. 
(s)
(t)
Write a program to carry out the following:
(a) Read a text file ‘INPUT.TXT’ 
(b) Print each word in reverse order 
Example, 
Input: INDIA IS MY COUNTRY 
Output: AIDNI SI YM YRTNUOC 
Assume that each word length is maximum of 10 characters 
and each word is separated by newline/blank characters. 
Write a C program to read a large text file ‘NOTES.TXT’ and 
print it on the printer in cut-sheets, introducing page breaks at 
the end of every 50 lines and a pause message on the screen at 
the end of every page for the user to change the paper.